ospdo scaledown docs (#730)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/modules/assembly_ospdo-scale-down-pre-database-adoption.adoc

[id="ospdo_scale_down_pre_database_adoption_{context}"]

= Scaling down director Operator resources

> Before you migrate your databases to the control plane, you must scale down and remove director Operator (OSPdO) resources in order to use the {rhos_long} resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you migrate your databases to the control plane, you must scale down and remove OpenStack director Operator (OSPdO) resources in order to use the {rhos_long} resources.
```

      state: up
      type: vlan
      vlan:
        base-iface: enp7s0
        id: 50
        reorder-headers: true
      ipv4:
        address:
        - ip: 172.20.0.7
          prefix-length: 24
        enabled: true
        dhcp: false
      ipv6:
        enabled: false
    - description: Configuring Bridge br-ctlplane with interface enp7s0
      name: br-ctlplane
      mtu: 1500
      type: linux-bridge
      state: up
      bridge:
        options:
          stp:
            enabled: false
        port:
          - name: enp1s0
            vlan: {}
      ipv4:
        address:
        - ip: 172.22.0.53
          prefix-length: 24
        enabled: true
        dhcp: false
      ipv6:
        enabled: false
    - bridge:
        options:
          stp:
            enabled: false
        port:
        - name: enp6s0
      description: Linux bridge with enp6s0 as a port
      ipv4:
        enabled: false
      ipv6:
        enabled: false
      mtu: 1500
      name: br-external
      state: up
      type: linux-bridge
  nodeSelector:
    kubernetes.io/hostname: <ostest-master-node>
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
EOF

$ oc apply -f /tmp/node3_nncp.yaml
----

> . Get the remaining OSPdO resources and delete everything. Do not delete the `OpenStackBaremetalSets` and `OpenStackProvisionServer` resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delete the remaining OSPdO resources. Do not delete the `OpenStackBaremetalSets` and `OpenStackProvisionServer` resources:
```

----
. Remove the webhooks from OSPdO:
+
----
$ oc patch csv $ospdo_csv_ver -n openstack --type json -p="[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/webhookdefinitions"}]"
----
. Remove the finalizer from the OSPdO `OpenStackBaremetalSet` resource:
+
----
$ oc patch openstackbaremetalsets.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack compute --type json -p="[{"op": "remove", "path": "/metadata/finalizers"}]"
----
. Delete the `OpenStackBaremetalSet` and `OpenStackProvisionServer` resources:
+
----
$ oc delete openstackbaremetalsets.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack --all
$ oc delete openstackprovisionservers.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack --all
----
. Annotate each {OpenStackShort} Compute `BareMetalHost` resource so that Metal3 does not start the node:
+
----
$ compute_bmh_list=$(oc get bmh -n openshift-machine-api |grep compute|awk '{printf $1 " "}')
$ for bmh_compute in $compute_bmh_list;do oc annotate bmh -n openshift-machine-api $bmh_compute baremetalhost.metal3.io/detached="";done
$ oc delete bmh -n openshift-machine-api $bmh_compute;done
----

> . Delete the OSPdO Operator Lifecycle Manager resources to remove OpenStack director Operator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delete the OSPdO Operator Lifecycle Manager resources to remove OSPdO:
```

[id="ospdo_scale_down_pre_database_adoption_{context}"]

= OSPdO scale down pre database adoption

This section scales down and removes OSPdO resources in favor of the RHOSO ones.

> 

Author: yes it is

.Procedure

> . Scale-down RHOSO OpenStack Operator controller-manager to 0 replicas and delete its OpenStackControlPlane’s OpenStackClient pod temporarily, so that we can use the OSPdO controller-manager to clean up some of its resources, needed because OSPdO ultimately can’t act due to a pod name collision between its OpenStackClient and RHOSO’s OpenStackClient.
> +
> ----
> oc patch csv -n openstack-operators openstack-operator.v0.0.1 --type json   -p="[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/install/spec/deployments/0/spec/replicas", "value": "0"}]"
> oc delete openstackclients.client.openstack.org --all
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Scale down the {rhos_acro} OpenStack Operator `controller-manager` to 0 replicas and temporarily delete the `OpenStackControlPlane` `OpenStackClient` pod, so that you can use the OSPdO `controller-manager` to clean up some of its resources. The cleanup is needed to avoid a pod name collision between the OSPdO OpenStackClient and the {rhos_acro} OpenStackClient.
+
----
$ oc patch csv -n openstack-operators openstack-operator.v0.0.1 --type json   -p="[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/install/spec/deployments/0/spec/replicas", "value": "0"}]"
$ oc delete openstackclients.client.openstack.org --all
----

```

Author: ok

> . Delete the OSPdO OpenStackControlPlane
> +
> ----
> oc delete openstackcontrolplanes.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack --all
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Delete the OSPdO `OpenStackControlPlane` custom resource:
+
----
$ oc delete openstackcontrolplanes.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack --all
----

```

Author: ok

> . Delete the OSPdO OpenStackNetConfig (this will remove OSPdO’s associated NNCPs)
> +
> ----
> oc delete osnetconfig -n openstack --all
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Delete the OSPdO `OpenStackNetConfig` CR to remove the associated node network configuration policies:
+
----
$ oc delete osnetconfig -n openstack --all
----

```

Author: ok

> . Label the third OCP node, the once which is holding the OSPdO vm (the one that was not labeled earlier)
> +
> ----
> oc label nodes <ostest-master-node> type=openstack
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Label the {OpenShiftShort} node that contains the OSPdO virtual machine (VM):
+
----
$ oc label nodes <ostest-master-node> type=openstack
----
+
* Replace ` <ostest-master-node>` with the remaining master node that contains the OSPdO VM.
```
@pinikomarov Please ensure that this rewrite is accurate.

Author: ok, that's accurate,
ostest was an arbitrary name chosen for ospdo deployments , no special meaning, I'll change it to something general: ospdo_vm_master_node

> . Create an NNCP for the third node (sample configuration):
> +
> ----
> cat << EOF > /tmp/node3_nncp.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a node network configuration policy for the third {OpenShiftShort} node. For example:
+
----
$ cat << EOF > /tmp/node3_nncp.yaml
```

I think we need to be more specific than "third node". Is it okay to say RHOCP node? We describe the node a little more in the previous step.

Author: ok

      name: enp7s0.50
      state: up
      type: vlan
      vlan:
        base-iface: enp7s0
        id: 50
        reorder-headers: true
      ipv4:
        address:
        - ip: 172.20.0.7
          prefix-length: 24
        enabled: true
        dhcp: false
      ipv6:
        enabled: false
    - description: Configuring Bridge br-ctlplane with interface enp7s0
      name: br-ctlplane
      mtu: 1500
      type: linux-bridge
      state: up
      bridge:
        options:
          stp:
            enabled: false
        port:
          - name: enp1s0
            vlan: {}
      ipv4:
        address:
        - ip: 172.22.0.53
          prefix-length: 24
        enabled: true
        dhcp: false
      ipv6:
        enabled: false
    - bridge:
        options:
          stp:
            enabled: false
        port:
        - name: enp6s0
      description: Linux bridge with enp6s0 as a port
      ipv4:
        enabled: false
      ipv6:
        enabled: false
      mtu: 1500
      name: br-external
      state: up
      type: linux-bridge
  nodeSelector:
    kubernetes.io/hostname: <ostest-master-node>
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
EOF

> oc apply -f /tmp/node3_nncp.yaml
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ oc apply -f /tmp/node3_nncp.yaml
----

```

Author: ok

> . Get remaining OSPdO operands and delete everything, except DO NOT DELETE OpenStackBaremetalSets nor OpenStackProvisionServers yet
> +
> ----
> for i in $(oc get crd | grep osp-director | grep -v baremetalset | grep -v provisionserver | awk {'print $1'}); do echo Deleting $i...; oc delete $i -n openstack --all; done
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Get the remaining OSPdO operands and delete everything. Do no delete `OpenStackBaremetalSets` and `OpenStackProvisionServers` :
+
----
$ for i in $(oc get crd | grep osp-director | grep -v baremetalset | grep -v provisionserver | awk {'print $1'}); do echo Deleting $i...; oc delete $i -n openstack --all; done
----

```
@pinikomarov Does "everything" refer to "operands"? Or "services"? I'd like to use a more specific word.

Author: ok , 
and I'll change to "resources" , that's more specific

> . Scale down OSPdO to 0 replicas
> +
> ----
> ospdo_csv_ver=$(oc get csv -n openstack -l operators.coreos.com/osp-director-operator.openstack -o json | jq -r '.items[0].metadata.name')
> oc patch csv -n openstack $ospdo_csv_ver --type json   -p="[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/install/spec/deployments/0/spec/replicas", "value": "0"}]"
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Scale down OSPdO to 0 replicas:
+
----
$ ospdo_csv_ver=$(oc get csv -n openstack -l operators.coreos.com/osp-director-operator.openstack -o json | jq -r '.items[0].metadata.name')
$ oc patch csv -n openstack $ospdo_csv_ver --type json   -p="[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/install/spec/deployments/0/spec/replicas", "value": "0"}]"
----

```

Author: ok

> . Remove the webhooks from OSPdO
> +
> ----
> oc patch csv $ospdo_csv_ver -n openstack --type json -p="[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/webhookdefinitions"}]"
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Remove the webhooks from OSPdO:
+
----
$ oc patch csv $ospdo_csv_ver -n openstack --type json -p="[{"op": "remove", "path": "/spec/webhookdefinitions"}]"
----

```

Author: ok

> . Remove the finalizer from the OSPdO OpenStackBaremetalSet
> +
> ----
> oc patch openstackbaremetalsets.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack compute --type json -p="[{"op": "remove", "path": "/metadata/finalizers"}]"
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Remove the finalizer from the OSPdO `OpenStackBaremetalSet` resource:
+
----
$ oc patch openstackbaremetalsets.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack compute --type json -p="[{"op": "remove", "path": "/metadata/finalizers"}]"
----

```

Author: ok

> . Now delete the OpenStackBaremetalSet and OpenStackProvisionServer
> +
> ----
> oc delete openstackbaremetalsets.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack --all
> oc delete openstackprovisionservers.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack --all
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Delete the `OpenStackBaremetalSet` and `OpenStackProvisionServer` resources:
+
----
$ oc delete openstackbaremetalsets.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack --all
$ oc delete openstackprovisionservers.osp-director.openstack.org -n openstack --all
----

```

Author: ok

> Annotate all OSP compute BMHs so that Metal3 no longer handles them
> +
> * Do this for each OSP compute BMH
> +
> ----
> compute_bmh_list=$(oc get bmh -n openshift-machine-api |grep compute|awk '{printf $1 " "}')
> 
> for bmh_compute in $compute_bmh_list;do oc annotate bmh -n openshift-machine-api $bmh_compute baremetalhost.metal3.io/detached="";
> oc delete bmh -n openshift-machine-api $bmh_compute;done
> ----
> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Annotate each {OpenStackShort} Compute `BareMetalHost` resource so that Metal3 does not start the node:
+
----
compute_bmh_list=$(oc get bmh -n openshift-machine-api |grep compute|awk '{printf $1 " "}')

for bmh_compute in $compute_bmh_list;do oc annotate bmh -n openshift-machine-api $bmh_compute baremetalhost.metal3.io/detached="";
oc delete bmh -n openshift-machine-api $bmh_compute;done
----

```
@pinikomarov Is my rewrite accurate?

Author: ok , and yes

. Delete OSPdO OLM resources (this will remove the OpenStack Director Operator)
+
----
oc delete subscription osp-director-operator -n openstack
oc delete operatorgroup osp-director-operator -n openstack
oc delete catalogsource osp-director-operator-index -n openstack
oc delete csv $ospdo_csv_ver -n openstack
----

> +

Author: ok

. Scale-up the RHOSO OpenStack Operator controller-manager to 1 replica so that the associated OpenStackControlPlane is reconciled and its OpenStackClient pod is recreated
+
----
oc patch csv -n openstack-operators openstack-operator.v0.0.1 --type json   -p="[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/install/spec/deployments/0/spec/replicas", "value": "1"}]"

> ----

Author: ok , 
"reconciled", here and to OCP operators in general means: "act" according to the resources I defined,
so here, once the controller-manager operator is up and running (as we patch it to be 1 instance instead of 0), it reads its instructions in the OpenStackControlPlane resource and executes whatever is needed so that everything defined in the that OpenStackControlPlane CR is alive and in existance, specifically we pay attention here to the OpenStackClient resources as the focused part of that CR.
